1. In the Chomsky hierarchy, what is the relation between type-n languages and type-(n-1) languages?
2. If a language can be generated by a type-1 grammar, can the same language be generated also by a type-2 grammar? Explain why.
3. How can we prove that the language $L=\Sigma+$ is regular.
4. Explain why type-1 grammars are also called monotonic grammars.
5. According to the given definitions, can a type-n grammar with n>0 generate a language that includes the empty string e?
6. Is it possible to introduce further restrictions on regular grammars? What happens if we do it?
7. What is the "state explosion" problem that may occur when building a DFA equivalent to a given NFA?
8. If we build a DFA equivalent to a given NFA, and the NFA has m states, what is the worst-case (maximum number of states) that we can have in the DFA?
9. Explain advantages and disadvantages of using an NFA instead of a DFA for solving the membership problem for a regular language.
10. What can we say about the intersection of 2 regular languages and the complement of a regular language? Are they regular or not? How can we prove it?
11. What is a possible way to check if a regular language L1 is included into another language L2?
12. Is it possible to turn an ambiguous context-free grammar into a non-ambiguous one? Are there any limitations?
13. What is the relation between the context-free languages accepted by PDAs and the ones accepted by DPDAs (i.e., deterministic PDAs)?
14. How is it possible to show that context-free languages are closed under union?
15. Why is the deterministic context-free languages class interesting? What is its most important property, with reference to the membership problem?
16. What is the relation between the languages accepted by Turing Machines (TMs) and the ones accepted by nondeterministic TMs?
17. What is the main difference between recursively enumerable sets and recursive sets for what concerns the membership problem?

---

1. Type n-1 grammars describe a larger set of languages, which have less restrictions than type n grammar, but they are also more complex.
2. It could, because type 2 grammar is a subset of type 1 grammar and describe more specific languages.
3. Define a start simbol $s$ so that s -> aS | bS | a | b. This is a right regular grammar which generates every string with the alphabet a,b.
4. Because the right side of a rule cant be smaller than the left side.
5. No, because they are monotonic grammars and the empty string cant be generated.
6. The non terminal character can be removed from the left side, then we have a grammar that can generate a singol symbol.
7. The number of states of the DFA is much larger than the number of states of the NFA.
8. The maximum number of states in the DFA is equal to the size of the powerset of NFA states, so $2^m$.
9. The implementation of NFA does not suffer from state explosion, but the execution time increases. It also allows the use of additional operators.
10. They are regular because they can be easly expressed with another regular language.
11. We could find the intersection of the 2 languages and if it's equivalent to L2 then L1 is included in L2.
12. It is possible but not for every language. Some are designed to be ambiguous.
13. DPDA are a special case of non-deterministic PDA. The class of languages accepted by DPDA are a strict subset of languages accepted by PDA.
14. It is possible to build a grammar (see slides)
15. The computational complexity of solving the membership problem. For DPDA the complexity is linear
16. non-deterministic TM is a generalization, but it accepts the same kind of languages
17. (see slides)